Let's start with the first exercise, starting the effect and then alternating between highlight and shrink
on this first div here.
I already get the start effect method here,
so here I need to use set interval to well switch between these two classes, in order to attach to
the classes,
I also need some property in the data property here to which I can bind the class attribute. I'll name
it effectClasses and this is just one possible set up here where I use an object which I want to attach,
you could also simply store true or false here so yeah
effectClasses might be just true or
false and then set up this object up here in your html code,
both will work as you learned
in the last lectures. So here in this object,
I basically want to have my highlight class and this shall either be attached or not,
so initially I'll say well not attach it and the shrink class which initially should be attached for
example. Up here on my div,
I can now bind to this class property by using v-bind and then class
and here I will refer to effectClasses, so to this property I just created. If I now hit control enter,
well we see it is felt grey but hasn't really shrunken and to force it to shrink,
let's add important here after the width, just like that if that is missing in your code you copied, it
should be there though.
So now you see it shrunk, now to make it alternate upon set interval when hitting the start effect
button,
I will add set up set interval here and I want to alternate every second,
so I'll set this to 1000 and then this the function I'll execute every one second.
Now in this function here, I will need access to my vue instance,
therefore I need to bind it to a new variable,
so this is bound to vm to get access to my properties on vm here.
I can then set vm
and then here
effectClasses highlight equal to the opposite and I'll say this right away, there will be other
ways of controlling this of course,
feel free to come up with any other way,
I'm going to choose a very explicit one here
and of course I want to do the same for my shrink class here,
so let's copy that too. If I now hit control enter and click start effect,
we see that every second this jumps around so it changes the style because it is what I set it up to,
I'm alternating between these two classes,
I'm the reversing the value of true or false here in the effectClasses property every one second thus
changing the style applied to this class. Time for exercise number two, create a couple of css classes
and attach them
via the array syntax to this unstyled div here.
Well let's quickly do this,
I'll add here
a class let's say blue and I want to set the background color to blue here.
Next, I will have set this to float,
I will create a new class, float where I set up float right
and lastly, I will set up text color with a dash where I will simply set color to yellow, let's say. With
that set up, I can now go to this div, use v-bind again to bind to my class and now, I want to use an
array to attach all these different css classes here.
Now I can, now in order to do that,
I first need to create some properties holding links or holding the names of these classes,
of course to be straight, this of course is a much longer and complicated way than just using normal
class attribute and saying float, text color and so on
but the sense of this exercise of course is to understand how to use this array syntax.
So here in my data property, I will then create float and set this equal to float as a string referring
to this class
and then I can use float in here.
I also don't have to create a property for each css class here,
I can also enclose them in single quotes, blue and text color because that is what float here will also
resolve to in the end,
a single quote in css name.
So if I now hit control enter, we see floats in the right
it is yellow and it has a blue background,
it doesn't look particularly pretty but our styles are applied successfully using this array syntax thus
allowing us to flexibly add multiple classes. In lecture number three,
we want to let the user enter a class and attach it. Well we already get a couple of classes which we
can attach to this div here,
so in order to see it though, I will add a new one which I will set to visible and this shall simply
be where I'll add a width of 100 pixel and a height of 50 pixels so that we can always see this div.
I can then use v-bind here to bind to my class and now to show yet another way of adding this,
I will use the inline syntax,
writing it here in the html code, I could outsource this in a separate property in the data property as
well like we did here for effectClasses. And here I will always attach visible, the class I just created
so that we could see the div
and then I want to let the user attach another class. The user attached class will be stored in a property
here, I'll name it user class,
initially it's empty and I can bind to this property using two-way binding with v-model here.
This will make sure that whatever the user inputs gets bound to this user class property here and now
I want to use this user class property here in my setup in this div, so right
now, I'm attaching visible true and now I can mix this or can use the array syntax and mix this
class here which is always attached, so I could have of course also just written string visible but I
just again want to show the different possibilities because maybe we had some code which conditionally changes
true or false here.
But now I want to also bind my user class here and this will just be a string which represents a class
name,
keep this in mind,
so if I now hit control enter, we kind of see the div here but we really only see it once I enter blue here.
We can also now enter float to also float it,
so this is also possible, we can kind of chain our classes here separated with a whitespace of course
so that it really is different classes
and yeah, this is how we can reactively or flexibly set a class, doesn't have to be changed by user
input,
this is just the
easiest source to simulate
there, could be any source changing user class here though and mixing it with the array syntax with this other
way of adding a class with key value pairs where the keys has the class name or gives you the class name
and the value indicates whether this class should be attached or not, stored as an object directly inline
in the HTML code there.
In exercise number four, I want to pick up on that
but now the user shall not only enter his own class but also be able to switch this visible switch, let's
say.
So here I want to bind to a new property which I haven't created yet which I'll name isVisible and
I'll set this to true initially.
I can therefore here in the first input still bind to let's say user class, on the second input here,
I then want to bind to isVisible to let the user change this between true or false. On this div here, I
now bind to class as above
and I will simply copy the code from there
but the key change here is that for visible, for this object, I just said the value here determines whether
this visible class will be attached or not.
Now the user is able to set this,
so I will bind this to isVisible referring to this property which is bound to this input here.
With that in place, let's hit control enter,
you see true is populated and we clearly see something there,
if I remove it, it seems to get removed as the input then moves up,
so let's change this back to true and let's name it blue.
There it is, again if I remove true here it's gone,
if I set it to anything else which is interpreted as true, we see it again, if I explicitly set it to
false, we also see it,
the reason being that whatever we enter here always is a string and strings are interpreted as true,
not cast to booleans
automatically.
So this is why only an empty input field will remove it
whilst false won't, because again it is treated as a string not as a boolean and strings are therefore
then always treated as true.
So that's just a little issue you might have with understanding this otherwise,
so that's important to understand how javascript, that's not vuejs, but javascript works behind the scenes
but again, an empty input field will get rid of it.
Time for exercise number five,
let's repeat the exercise number three so that was the one where we were able to enter our old
class name but now with a style for style of our choice.
So here, I will set up the background color since it really is the easiest one to see, though that is
the reason and I will name this my style because I want to create an object where I not only have the
background color which is set through the user but I also want to have the width which let's say is 100
pixels again where I also have my height which is 50 or let's make it 150 pixels to mix things up
and then I want to have my background color, important camel case or alternative normal css name with
the dash in this case but inside single quotation marks and then bind this to a property which is set
through the user later on,
so here initially I will set it to grey let's say. Well on this input where I want to let the user change
the background color,
I can set up v-model to be hooked up to my style background color because this is the property I want
to change by the user, right
and then here on this div, I will simply add v-bind
but now I'm not binding to class as before but I want to set the style, so I'm binding to style and I
pass my style as an argument which is an object, what style expects to get, which has the width and height
and this dynamically settable background color. With control enter,
we already see this gray div here
and now if I change this to blue, it changes to blue
and of course that works with any color which is recognized.
It should also work with hex codes so that will also work here, anything which can be interpreted as
a valid color in the end.
This is how we can make parts of our style dynamic as you see here,
one of course you can increase this degree of flexibility, you could add inputs setting the
width and height
and again as with the class, of course you cannot only react to user input,
any place where you change this background color or this width or height or whatever will have the same
effect here and will update the styles,
this is what this style binding is there for in the end, I'm just choosing user input all the time because
it's the easiest to simulate and to play around with for us.
Almost done, time for the last exercise,
the most complex one here. We want to create a simple progress bar below start progress,
so this div here shall become the progress bar. In order to make it a progress bar,
I will first create a new class and you could do this in your vuejs instance of course too but all
I want to do here is I want to set up a width of 200 pixels and let's say a height of 20 pixels and
I want to give it a border of one pixel solid and black, so that we can always see the empty progress
bar at least. So I can now add v-bind class to use vuejs for that right now,
add an array and bind to progress bar with single quotation marks.
As you can see after hitting control enter, we now get this progress bar at the bottom. Of course it's
not very interesting right now because it's not updating,
well we can simply update it by changing the background color style and the width, kind of.
Now a real progress bar would have this outer div,
this one here
and then an inner div which reflects the actual bar whereas the outer div reflects the maximal bar
kind of, you could set it up like this,
I will make a very simple progress bar where the whole bar grows and possibly shrinks.
So this is really just what I set up here,
you may of course choose a more complicated progress bar where you have this outer box and this inner
bar but then you also have to make sure that the inner bar stops growing at some point.
So this is the default progress bar we'll always see but now I want to replace it with a background color so
that we get a growing one, for that I first need to hook up start progress with v-on for example and listen to
a click event here of course where I say start progress.
This is a function I yet have to create,
so I'll do this here after start effect, we have start progress which is a function where I will use
set interval as well because I want to with one l though, because I want to update it every half the
a second let's say
and then here, the function which should get executed every half second.
Now in this function, I again need access to my vue instance so I'm storing it in a variable, the this
keyword,
so this reference to my vue instance.
And then here inside set interval, I want to change some styles which I want to apply to this progress
bar here,
so I will add v-bind style and I want to style or I want to bind to a new style, a new object I created
in this data property here which I'll name progress bar.
This is a normal javascript object
and here I will have a width of let's say 0 pixels initially
and I will have a background color of let's say red by default and you could overwrite that. In set
interval, I now want to access this progress bar object I just created, progress bar property and change
the width,
now to what do I want to change width
though? It should continuously grow,
so I somehow also need to increase the width, I need to store the current width and then add something
to it, right?
Well outside of this set interval function here but in the start progress function, I can simply create
a variable width which I set to zero initially and then here in the progress bar,
I set width equal to width plus 10 let's say and then here, I can set the vm.progressBar.width equal to width
plus
and since this need to be in pixels, pixels to also convert it to a string.
Well let's try it out by adding to this style here,
the style I want to add is progress bar,
remember this is the object where I'm overwriting the width down here in the set interval function.
So if I hit control enter to let this reload,
let's hit start progress
and we see it grow.
And this will grow infinitely,
it won't stop,
so this would be an extra challenge I guess, to implement some method to make it stop at some point.
I will simply reload the application here to
well make it kind of hard stop here.
But this will be a nice little extra but it's not really core of the styling task which is why I don't
include it here,
what this should show you though is how you can work with styles, how I set up my own style object here
as a property in the data field, in
the data property of my vue instance and how I then change a part of this progress bar object, the width
in the set interval function.
And of course I could change any part of it
and of course there are different ways of setting this up,
so feel free playing around with styles and classes and getting comfortable binding them dynamically
in different ways, changing different things here in vuejs.